# Project Overview

*Yellow Taxicabs are the only vehicles that have the right to pick up street-hailing and prearranged passengers anywhere in New York City.My objective is upload the collected dataset to hadoop ecosytem, analyse, and explore the uploaded dataset while answering some important questions.*
 
#### HiveQL is the language used to query the dataset. 
 
## Data and Exploration

### Dataset used <br />

The dataset used in this Hadoop-Hive Case Study is collected from the official website of the [NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC)](https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/tlc-trip-record-data.page) of the year 2015. The yellow taxi trip records include fields capturing pick-up and drop-off dates/times, pick-up and drop-off locations, trip distances, itemized fares, rate types, payment types, and driver-reported passenger counts.

### Exploration Questions <br />
 
In this case study I explore the following questions:
 
1. What is the total number of trips ( equal to the number of rows)?
2. What is the total revenue generated by all the trips? The fare is stored in the column total_amount.
3. What fraction of the total is paid for tolls? The toll is stored in tolls_amount.
4. What fraction of it is driver tips? The tip is stored in tip_amount.
5. What is the average trip amount?
6. What is the average distance of the trips? Distance is stored in the column trip_distance.
7. How many different payment types are used?
8. For each payment type, display the following details:
- Average fare generated
- Average tip
- Average tax – tax is stored in column mta_tax
9. On average which hour of the day generates the highest revenue?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
